SLA0047 Rev2/July 2020

## Software license agreement

### __SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT__

This is a legally enforceable contract (Agreement) between STMicroelectronics
International N.V., Swiss branch and/or its affiliated companies
(STMicroelectronics or ST) and you, on behalf of yourself, or on behalf of the
entity by which you are employed and/or engaged (You).

Please indicate Your acceptance of this contract by selecting “I ACCEPT” or
indicate Your rejection of this contract by selecting “I DO NOT ACCEPT” as
indicated below in the media,

AND/OR

BY INSTALLING COPYING, DOWNLOADING, ACCESSING OR OTHERWISE USING THIS LICENSED
SOFTWARE (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY DOCUMENTATION AND OTHER PARTS
THEREOF) YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT.

__DEFINITIONS__

Licensed Software: means the software/firmware, examples, project template and
all the related documentation and design tools licensed and delivered in the
form of object and/or source code as the case may be.

Your Product: means Your and Your end-users’ product or system, and all the
related documentation, that includes or works in combination with an executable
version of the Licensed Software or derivative of the Licensed Software as
permitted in this Agreement and provided further that such Licensed Software or
derivative of the Licensed Software as permitted in this Agreement executes
solely and exclusively on microcontroller devices manufactured by or for ST.

__LICENSE__

STMicroelectronics grants You a non-exclusive, worldwide, non-transferable
(whether by assignment or otherwise unless expressly authorized by ST) non
sub-licensable, revocable, royalty-free limited license of the Licensed Software
to:

(i) use, make copies and prepare derivative works of Licensed Software that is
delivered by ST in source code format for the sole purpose of designing,
developing and manufacturing Your Products;

(ii) use, make copies and prepare derivative works (without reverse engineering)
of the Licensed Software that is delivered by ST in object code format for the
sole purpose of designing, developing and manufacturing Your Products;

(iii) make copies and prepare derivative works of the documentation part of the
Licensed Software for the sole purpose of providing documentation for Your
Products and their usage;

(iv) make, have made, import, export and otherwise distribute the Licensed
Software or derivative of the Licensed Software as permitted in this Agreement
solely in object code format, as incorporated in Your Products, or for execution
on Your Products, provided such distribution is subject to license terms as
protective of the Licensed Software and ST’s rights in the Licensed Software as
this Agreement (including without limitation a warranty disclaimer and a
limitation of liability as protective of ST as those contained in this
Agreement).

__OWNERSHIP AND COPYRIGHT__

Title to the Licensed Software, related documentation and all copies thereof
remain with ST and/or its licensors. You may not remove any copyright notice,
warranty disclaimer, or other proprietary notice from the Licensed Software or
from any permitted copies of the Licensed Software. You shall prevent any
unauthorized copying of the Licensed Software, including without limitation any
documentation parts.

__RESTRICTIONS__

Unless otherwise explicitly stated in this Agreement, You may not sell, assign,
sublicense, lease, rent or otherwise distribute the Licensed Software for
commercial purposes, in whole or in part.

You acknowledge and agree that any use, adaptation translation or transcription
of the Licensed Software or any portion or derivative thereof, for use with
processors manufactured by or for any entity other than ST is a material breach
of this Agreement.

You shall not decompile the object code of the Licensed Software or otherwise
reverse engineer the Licensed Software. You shall not use the Licensed Software
as a basis to create similar or competing software or products.

You shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations affecting the use of
the Licensed Software including any applicable export control law or regulation.

Neither the name nor any trademark of STMicroelectronics nor other contributors
to the Licensed Software may be used to endorse or promote software or products
derived from the Licensed Software (including any part thereof) without specific
written permission.

No use, reproduction or redistribution of this Licensed Software partially or
totally may be done in any manner that would subject this Licensed Software to
any Open Source Terms (as defined below).

__OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE__

The Licensed Software may contain software subject to Open Source Terms (as
defined below) applicable for each such portion (Open Source Software), as
further specified in the Licensed Software. Such Open Source Software is
supplied under the applicable Open Source Terms and is not subject to the terms
and conditions of license hereunder. By installing copying, downloading,
accessing or otherwise using the Licensed Software, You agree to be bound by
such Open Source Terms with regard to such Open Source Software. Open Source
Terms: mean any open source license which requires as part of distribution of
software that the source code of such software is distributed therewith or
otherwise made available, or open source license that substantially complies
with the Open Source definition specified at www.opensource.org and any other
comparable open source license such as for example GNU General Public License
(GPL), Eclipse Public License (EPL), Apache Software License, BSD license and
MIT license.

__THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE__

Certain portions of the Licensed Software may be subject to third party license
terms as expressly specified in the Licensed Software. In such event, those
portions are supplied under the specified third party license terms and are not
subject to the license terms of this Agreement. By installing copying,
downloading, accessing or otherwise using the Licensed Software, You agree to be
bound by such third party license terms with regard to those portions.

__NO OTHER RIGHTS OR LICENSES__

No rights or licenses are granted to You, except as expressly stated in this
Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no rights or
licenses are granted in any products, technology or intellectual property rights
of ST except those embodied in the Licensed Software.

__NO WARRANTY__

The Licensed Software is provided “as is” and “with all faults” without warranty
of any kind expressed or implied. ST and its licensors expressly disclaim all
warranties, expressed, implied or otherwise, including without limitation,
warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and
non-infringement of intellectual property rights. ST does not warrant that the
use in whole or in part of the Licensed Software will be interrupted or error
free, will meet Your requirements, or will operate with the combination of
hardware and software selected by You.

You are responsible for determining whether the Licensed Software will be
suitable for your intended use or application or will achieve your intended
results. ST will not be liable to You and/or to any third party for the
derivative works of the Licensed Software developed by You.

ST has not authorised anyone to make any representation or warranty for the
Licensed Software, and any technical, applications or design information or
advice, quality characterization, reliability data or other services provided by
ST shall not constitute any representation or warranty by ST or alter this
disclaimer or warranty, and no additional obligations or liabilities beyond
those explicitly stated in this Agreement shall arise from ST’s providing such
information or services. ST does not assume or authorize any other person to
assume for it any other liability in connection with the Licensed Software.

Nothing contained in this Agreement will be construed as:

(i) a warranty or representation by ST to maintain production of any ST device
or other hardware or software with which the Licensed Software may be used or to
otherwise maintain or support the Licensed Software in any manner; or

(ii) a commitment from ST and/or its licensors to bring or prosecute actions or
suits against third parties for infringement of any of the rights licensed
hereby, or conferring any rights to bring or prosecute actions or suits against
third parties for infringement. However, ST has the right to terminate this
Agreement immediately upon receiving notice of any claim, suit or proceeding
that alleges that the Licensed Software or Your use or distribution of the
Licensed Software infringes any third party intellectual property rights.

All other warranties, conditions or other terms implied by law are excluded to
the fullest extent permitted by law.

__LIMITATION OF LIABILITIES__

In no event shall ST or its licensors be liable to You or any third party for
any indirect, special, consequential, incidental, punitive damages or other
damages (including but not limited to, the cost of labor, re-qualification,
delay, loss of profits, loss of revenues, loss of data, costs of procurement of
substitute goods or services or the like) whether based on contract, tort, or
any other legal theory, relating to or in connection with the Licensed Software,
the documentation or this Agreement, even if ST has been advised of the
possibility of such damages.

In no event shall ST’s liability to You or any third party under this Agreement,
including any claim with respect of any third party intellectual property
rights, for any cause of action exceed 100 US$. This section does not apply to
the extent prohibited by law. For the purposes of this section, any liability of
ST shall be treated in the aggregate.

__TERMINATION__

ST may terminate this Agreement, including its licenses, at any time if You are
in material breach of any of its terms and conditions and You have failed to
cure such breach within 30 (thirty) days after receiving notification from ST of
such breach. Upon termination, You will immediately destroy or return all copies
of the Licensed Software (including without limitation any documentation) to ST.
After termination, Your sole surviving right will be to continue to use the
Licensed Software solely to the extent that it was already incorporated before
Your material breach of this Agreement into Your Products, which were sold by
You before the date of Your material breach.

__APPLICABLE LAW AND JURISDICTION__

This Agreement and matters connected with the validity, interpretation or
performance thereof shall be governed, construed, interpreted, and applied in
all respects by the law in place in Switzerland, without resort to conflict of
laws principles. The Parties expressly agree that the United Nations Convention
on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods shall not apply to this
Agreement or to their relationship.

Dispute Resolution. The Parties consent to exclusive jurisdiction in the court
of Canton of Geneva, Switzerland for purposes of any litigation arising from
this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this section shall
prevent either Party seeking interim injunctive relief from a court or tribunal
of appropriate jurisdiction.

__SEVERABILITY__

If any provision of this agreement is or becomes, at any time or for any reason,
unenforceable or invalid, no other provision of this agreement shall be affected
thereby, and the remaining provisions of this agreement shall continue with the
same force and effect as if such unenforceable or invalid provisions had not
been inserted in this Agreement.

__WAIVER__

The failure or delay of either party to enforce any provision of this Agreement
shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other or a subsequent
breach of the same or a different provision.

__ASSIGNMENT__

This Agreement may not be assigned by You, nor any of Your rights or obligations
hereunder, to any third party without prior written consent of ST. In the event
that this Agreement is assigned effectively to a third party, this Agreement
shall bind upon successors and assigns of the parties hereto.

__RELATIONSHIP OF THE PARTIES__

Nothing in this Agreement shall create, or be deemed to create, a partnership or
the relationship of principal and agent or employer and employee between the
Parties. Neither Party has the authority or power to bind, to contract in the
name of or to create a liability for the other in any way or for any purpose.
